>> Evan You: Render functions,
this is a few component.
And instead of giving at a template you
give render function, here's your point.
So the render function
takes single argument h, so
this is an aliasfor create element.
H is just a convention because there
are a lot of different implementations
of virtual dome.
And they sort of have agreed on
a common API called hyperscript,
which is a style of writing these
virtual dome render functions.
And because html is like
hyper text transfer protocol.
And so hyper script is a script
that produces hypertext.
And eventually it gets shortened
to h because it's easy to type,
it's just a convention, okay.
So it takes three arguments.
First, argument is the type
of the element, very obvious.
The second is a data object.
The render object can contain,
so nested under it.
In React this is directly
the props object, but
in Vue,
we nest more fields under this object.
So props, ATRs, DOM props can each be
nested in different objects.
And class and style are also get
special treatment because they are so
commonly used.
And we have some special convenience
support for class and style.
So for example, in templates you can
bind to class using an array on object.
You can do that in the same in render
functions, the API is the same.
And eventually the third argument is
just an array of more child nodes, so
you will nest h calls inside this
array to produce more child nodes.
So everything is just nested calls,
eventually together they return a tree of
virtual nodes.
>> Evan You: And
it's pretty versatile too.
Notice that the second
data object is optional,
if you don't have any data for this node.
This is just a bare div node,
you can omit the second object and
directly give it to children.
And the children argument is also
pretty flexible, it can be an array or
you can just directly give it some text.
It will automatically
convert this text into
a children array of virtual text nodes.
So the first line here creates
a div with some text inside of it.
The second one creates the same
div except it has a class of foo.
And the third one creates
a div with some real children.
So you can have some text
inside the children array,
alongside it with another virtual
child node which is a span.
So this would create something like div,
some text, span, a bar.
So if you search for random functions in
the API docs, you will see more details.
But this should get you through
most of the basic use cases.
Any questions so far?
>> Speaker 2: So
any time you would have text,
that would just be
the actual text inside of there?
>> Evan You: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: And if it was a child that
had an object,
that would be an actual HTML element.
>> Evan You: Yeah, so
you need to create it with the h function,
yeah.
And remember inside your render function
you would need to eventually return this
top level element, so
that the whole tree gets returned.
And a relatively lesser known feature of
the h function is that it can directly
render a component as well.
Similar to how we use custom
component tags as custom
element tags inside our templates.
The h,
in addition to taking string tag types,
it can also directly take
a component definition.
So let's say we import a component
from another view component file.
And you can directly pass that
component into the h function.
So that'll create a component instance,
that'll create a v node
representing that component
instead of a normal element.
And you can then pass
the props to that component in
the data object as well,
let's run another feature.
So basically this means that you no longer
have to register the component inside
the component's option, then reference
it using the kebab case name of it.
You can completely skip that step
when you're using render functions.
>> Speaker 3: There's some questions on
chad, I'm not sure when
you want to address them.
>> Evan You: Sure, I can take questions
now.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, so
do you know any major production sites
that precompiled their templates?
>> Evan You: I think almost all major
production sites built with view
are precompiling the templates.
Because you will be using Webpack and
Vue Loader, and if you're using that,
you're already precompiling by default.
>> Speaker 3: What do you think about
templates for functional components?
>> Evan You: That's something we
are planning to support,
but there are some edge cases that
we need to carefully evaluate.
Because functional components do not
support everything that stateful
components support.
But internally we have an experimental
branch by Blake Hizarotine,
and he's done an experimental branch
that already sort of got it working.
It's just we have to iron out some edge
cases to make sure everything works
smoothly as expected.
>> Speaker 3: Can you
ask whether the render
function is different than
the render object inside of view instance?
Usually seen when I create
an app via view CLI.
>> Evan You: The render object?
>> Speaker 4: When you create an app,
I can kind of help rephrase
it cuz I've seen it.
When you create an app with
UCLI at the top level-
[CROSSTALK]
>> Evan You: Right.
>> Speaker 4: In the view instance there's
a render and then h,
>> Evan You: Returns app, right,
yeah.
>> Speaker 4: And h app yeah, so I think
that's exactly what you're describing
>> Evan You: So
that's a render function, and it's just
using the arrow function shorthand.
Instead of doing the full
render return it's just
directly returning another component.
This is also a very common pattern,
which we will in fact talk about later.
That a component can return another
component as it's own root node.
So this outer component doesn't
render anything of it's ow,
iInstead it simply renders
another component.
So this is like a shell component, but
this shell component can
do some interesting things.
And in the case of the root instance,
in the view CI template
we let the root instance.
We want to separate the responsibility of
the root instance because we do inject
stores routers at the root level.
Also the root instance
cannot be hot reloaded, so
that's a technical limitation.
So by separating the root instance
with your app component that allows
our app component to be hot reloadable.
So when you edit the app.vue file,
you will see hot reloads.
But if you edit the root instance itself,
then you have to manually
reload your page.
So that's just also a development
experience concern.